sql-statements: clarify mysql compatibility of load data (#13601) (#13627)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-load-data.md

## MySQL compatibility

> <<<<<<< HEAD
> This statement is understood to be fully compatible with MySQL except for the `LOAD DATA...REPLACE INTO` syntax [#24515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24515). Any other compatibility differences should be [reported via an issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/new/choose) on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax of this statement is compatible with MySQL except for the `LOAD DATA...REPLACE INTO` syntax [#24515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24515). Any other syntax compatibility differences should be [reported via an issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/new/choose) on GitHub.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > In earlier releases of TiDB, `LOAD DATA` committed every 20000 rows. By default, TiDB now commits all rows in one transaction. This can result in the error `ERROR 8004 (HY000) at line 1: Transaction is too large, size: 100000058` after upgrading from TiDB 4.0 or earlier versions.
> >
> > The recommended way to resolve this error is to increase the `txn-total-size-limit` value in your `tidb.toml` file. If you are unable to increase this limit, you can also restore the previous behavior by setting [`tidb_dml_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_batch_size) to `20000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - In earlier releases of TiDB, `LOAD DATA` committed every 20000 rows. By default, TiDB now commits all rows in one transaction. This can result in the error `ERROR 8004 (HY000) at line 1: Transaction is too large, size: 100000058` after upgrading from TiDB 4.0 or earlier versions. The recommended way to resolve this error is to increase the `txn-total-size-limit` value in your `tidb.toml` file. If you are unable to increase this limit, you can also restore the previous behavior by setting [`tidb_dml_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_batch_size) to `20000`.
```

> =======
> The syntax of the `LOAD DATA` statement is compatible with that of MySQL, except for character set options which are parsed but ignored. If you find any syntax compatibility difference, you can [report it via an issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/new/choose) on GitHub.
> 
> <CustomContent platform="tidb">
> 
> > **Note:**
> >
> > - For versions earlier than TiDB v4.0.0, `LOAD DATA` commits every 20000 rows.
> > - For versions from TiDB v4.0.0 to v6.6.0, TiDB commits all rows in one transaction by default.
> > - Starting from TiDB v7.0.0, the number of rows to be committed in a batch is controlled by the `WITH batch_size=<number>` parameter of the `LOAD DATA` statement, which defaults to 1000 rows per commit.
> > - After upgrading from TiDB v4.0.0 or earlier versions, `ERROR 8004 (HY000) at line 1: Transaction is too large, size: 100000058` might occur. The recommended way to resolve this error is to increase the [`txn-total-size-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#txn-total-size-limit) value in your `tidb.toml` file. If you are unable to increase this limit, you can also restore the behavior before the upgrade by setting [`tidb_dml_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_batch_size) to `20000`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - No matter how many rows are committed in a transaction, `LOAD DATA` is not rolled back by the [`ROLLBACK`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rollback.md) statement in an explicit transaction.
> - The `LOAD DATA` statement is always executed in optimistic transaction mode, regardless of the TiDB transaction mode configuration.

> 
> </CustomContent>
> 
> <CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">
> 
> > **Note:**
> >
> > - For versions earlier than TiDB v4.0.0, `LOAD DATA` commits every 20000 rows.
> > - For versions from TiDB v4.0.0 to v6.6.0, TiDB commits all rows in one transaction by default.
> > - Starting from TiDB v7.0.0, the number of rows to be committed in a batch is controlled by the `WITH batch_size=<number>` parameter of the `LOAD DATA` statement, which defaults to 1000 rows per commit.
> > - After upgrading from TiDB v4.0.0 or earlier versions, `ERROR 8004 (HY000) at line 1: Transaction is too large, size: 100000058` might occur. To resolve this error, you can restore the behavior before the upgrade by setting [`tidb_dml_batch_size`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_batch_size) to `20000`.
> > - No matter how many rows are committed in a transaction, `LOAD DATA` is not rolled back by the [`ROLLBACK`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-rollback.md) statement in an explicit transaction.
> > - The `LOAD DATA` statement is always executed in optimistic transaction mode, regardless of the TiDB transaction mode configuration.
> 
> </CustomContent>
> >>>>>>> 852e2afba (sql-statements: clarify mysql compatibility of load data (#13601))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## See also

* [INSERT](/sql-statements/sql-statement-insert.md)
<<<<<<< HEAD
* [Import Example Database](/import-example-data.md)
* [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md)
=======
* [TiDB Optimistic Transaction Model](/optimistic-transaction.md)
* [TiDB Pessimistic Transaction Mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md)
* [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md)
* [`SHOW LOAD DATA`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-load-data.md)
* [`CANCEL LOAD DATA` and `DROP LOAD DATA`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-operate-load-data-job.md)

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

* [INSERT](/sql-statements/sql-statement-insert.md)
* [TiDB Optimistic Transaction Model](/optimistic-transaction.md)
* [TiDB Pessimistic Transaction Mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md)
* [TiDB Lightning](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-overview)
* [`SHOW LOAD DATA`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-show-load-data.md)
* [`CANCEL LOAD DATA` and `DROP LOAD DATA`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-operate-load-data-job.md)

</CustomContent>

> >>>>>>> 852e2afba (sql-statements: clarify mysql compatibility of load data (#13601))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Import Example Database](/import-example-data.md)
* [TiDB Optimistic Transaction Model](/optimistic-transaction.md)
* [TiDB Pessimistic Transaction Mode](/pessimistic-transaction.md)
* [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md)
